add docs for MSBuild breaking change around serialization of certain types (#29311)
dotnet/docs: docs/core/compatibility/sdk/7.0/custom-serialization.md

---
title: "Breaking change: Serialization of custom types in .NET 7"
description: Learn about a breaking change in MSBuild for .NET 7 where serialization using BinaryFormatter of certain user-defined types is removed.
author: baronfel
ms.date: 05/06/2022
---

# BinaryFormatter serialization of custom BuildEventArgs and ITaskItems removed for .NET 7

> MSBuild in .NET 7 doesn't support serialization of custom `BuildEventArgs`- and `ITaskItem`-derived types via the BinaryFormatter serializer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
MSBuild in .NET 7 doesn't support serialization of custom `BuildEventArgs`-derived and `ITaskItem`-derived types via the `BinaryFormatter` serializer.
```

> ## Version Introduced

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Version introduced
```

Reviewer: Docs uses sentence casing for titles.

MSBuild 17.4 (.NET SDK 7.0.100)

> ## Old Behavior

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Old behavior
```

> MSBuild used BinaryFormatter via the `TranslateDotNet` method to translate custom BuildEventArgs and ITaskItems that users could define in their own Tasks.

Reviewer 2: `TranslateDotNet` is internal and no one should know or care about it.

```suggestion
MSBuild used BinaryFormatter to preserve custom types across certain boundaries, most notably when running in a multi-process environment.
```

That's awful vague though.

Reviewer 3: MSBuild used BinaryFormatter to serialize and deserialize custom types derived from BuildEventArgs and ITaskItem, especially between processes when building with multiple processes.
?

> ## New Behavior

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## New behavior
```

> MSBuild will no longer support this mechanism, so code that used `TranslateDotNet` will fail to compile.

Reviewer 3: See previous comment on TranslateDotNet not being something people need to know about.

## Reason for change

> BinaryFormatter was [made obsolete in .NET 5](https://github.com/dotnet/designs/blob/main/accepted/2020/better-obsoletion/binaryformatter-obsoletion.md). Per this plan, all first-party code in the dotnet org must migrate away from its use by .NET 7. This change impacts user-exposed functionality of MSBuild.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
BinaryFormatter was [made obsolete in .NET 5](https://github.com/dotnet/designs/blob/main/accepted/2020/better-obsoletion/binaryformatter-obsoletion.md). Per this plan, all first-party code in the dotnet GitHub organization must migrate away from its use by .NET 7. This change impacts user-exposed functionality of MSBuild.
```

> BinaryFormatter was [obsoleted in .NET 5](https://github.com/dotnet/designs/blob/main/accepted/2020/better-obsoletion/binaryformatter-obsoletion.md). Per this plan, all first-party dotnet org code bases must migrate away from its use by .NET 7. This change specifically impacts user-exposed functionality of MSBuild, which is why this breaking change notice is separate from the original deprecation notice.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
BinaryFormatter was [made obsolete in .NET 5](https://github.com/dotnet/designs/blob/main/accepted/2020/better-obsoletion/binaryformatter-obsoletion.md). Per this plan, all first-party code in the dotnet org must migrate away from its use by .NET 7. This change impacts user-exposed functionality of MSBuild.
```

## Recommended action

> * Engage with the MSBuild team on [this GitHub discussion](https://github.com/dotnet/msbuild/discussions/7582) about your specific use cases and how you can migrate away from the `TranslateDotNet` mechanism.

Reviewer 3: See TranslateDotNet note

> * Update your Tasks to use a different serialization mechanism.

Reviewer 2: At the moment there's no way to do this; we handle serialization and don't expose any pluggability.

I'd replace with

```suggestion
* Avoid returning custom derived types from tasks or when logging.
```
